Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
Introduction
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has developed a long term vision of science,
technology and innovation (STI) to create a “knowledge-based economy and
society through a globally competitive national STI ecosystem”, thus achieving the
Kingdom’s strategic goal of becoming one of the advanced countries in science,
technology and innovation by 1445H (2025). One of the factors hopefully ensuring
the achievement of this ambitious vision is the ongoing and growing support of
the government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah Bin
Abdulaziz, to the STI sector, and the Saudi government’s determination to engage
the Kingdom’s natural resources-based economy in comprehensive economic
development, fueled with innovation and creativity, where the growing national
human potential is invested according to a sound strategic plan.
Accordingly, the Royal Decree issued in 1406H (1985) directed KACST to
“propose a national policy for the development of science, technology, and
innovation, in addition to developing the necessary strategy and plan to implement
this policy”. KACST’s achievements in this context began with the development of
“the National Policy for Science and Technology in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia”, which was approved by the Council of Ministers in 1423H (2002). It
would embody the Kingdom’s vision and its fundamental strategic plans, ensuring
the continuous sustained developmental efforts to enhance the STI ecosystem
activities, all the while providing a framework of appropriate priorities, options and
policies for each planning phase, building the Saudi knowledge-based economy
and society.
To ensure the achievement of the national policy of science and technology
strategy strategies, a national science, technology and innovation plan (NSTIP)
was developed. The NSTIP consists of (8) strategic programs diverging into a
number of projects to be co-executed by all national public and private Saudi
economic sectors, so as to ensure the realization of the Kingdom’s long-term
vision, which reflects the vision of The Custodian of the two Holy Mosques of
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
4
building a “knowledge-based economy and society through a world competitive
national STI ecosystem” by 2025.
These regulations are part of a series of publications of the NSTIP General
Secretariat, aiming to organize the administrative, technical and financial
procedures of the national science, technology and innovation plan, and to
determine the commitments and responsibilities of all parties involved with the
implementation of its programs and projects.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
5
Chapter I: Concepts and terms
Article 1: Purpose of the regulations
These regulations are meant to organize the NSTIP administrative, technical and
financial procedures, and to determine the commitments and responsibilities of all
parties involved with the implementation of its programs and projects.
Article 2: Concepts and terms
Unless otherwise implied by the context, the following concepts and terms shall be
defined as follows:
- KACST: King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology.
- NSTIP: National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan.
- Supervisory committee: The committee supervising the national science,
technology and innovation plan.
- Preliminary committee: A sub-committee reporting to the supervisory
committee.
- General secretariat: the NSTIP General Secretariat.
- Stakeholder: Ministry or university or body of legal personality benefitting
from NSTIP funding of a research or operational project, where the project
is essentially being implemented within its facilities and buildings, which
also includes individual parties in a direct funding contract.
- Unit: the stakeholder’s science and technology unit.
- Stakeholder’s authority: The stakeholder’s official to whom the unit
reports.
- Scientific committee: An expert committee reporting to the unit, to review
and evaluate research projects.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
6
- Technical committee: An expert committee reporting to the unit, to review
and evaluate operational projects.
- Financial committee: An expert committee reporting to the unit,
responsible for evaluating and approving tenders for the procurement of
equipment and supplies approved for a given project, in coordination with
the head researcher of research projects, or project manager of operational
projects.
- Strategic technologies: Technologies determined by the NSTIP to be a
strategic priority for the future of KSA development.
- Program: A set of research or operational projects related to any of the
NSTIP programs.
- Project: A project can be either a research or an operational project:
a. Research project: A project dedicated to the thorough and
comprehensive study of a specific topic. Conducting such a project
requires the participation of a number of experts. It can be basic,
applied or developmental research:
1. Basic research: Experimental or theoretical work essentially
conducted to acquire new knowledge related to phenomena and
facts that can be grasped, which is not intended for any specific
application.
2. Applied research: Initial investigation seeking new knowledge
aimed essentially at implementing a practical objective or
purpose.
3. Developmental research: A concerted effort to apply current
knowledge derived from research or scientific expertise, to the
production of new materials such as new products and
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
7
equipment, intended to innovate new services, systems and
operations, or drastically enhance existing ones.
b. An operational project: A project that is not a research activity in
nature and that achieves the goals of any of the programs of the
NSTIP five year plans, such as the ones involved with the
development of science, technology and innovation (STI) policies and
regulations, or the development of research or service facilities such
as laboratories, incubators, experiment stations etc…
- Unit director: The person in charge of running the stakeholder’s science
and technology unit, who must be a Saudi national.
- Program director: The person in charge of managing and overseeing any of
the unit’s programs.
- Project manager: The person in charge of the administrative and financial
aspects of the project.
- Research proposal: The comprehensive scientific and systematic
description of the problem’s: nature, importance, set solution objectives,
qualified human resources, work methods, implementation time frame,
requirements and capabilities-including financial cost- necessary to
implement the suggested proposal, results and outputs of this research, and
potential stakeholders benefiting from such research.
- National task teams: Single or multiple stakeholders expert teams formed
by the chairman of the supervisory committee to carry out a specific task.
- Task team: A task team including all individuals working on the project.
- Research team: A research team consists of the head researcher and the
research associates only.
- Head researcher: A person with scientific and technical qualifications
responsible for all scientific and technical activities of the research project.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
8
- Research associate: A person with scientific and technical qualifications
who participates in the research/activity being carried out, responsible for his
specific assignment which relates to his area of expertise and experience.
- Research assistant: A person with scientific and technical qualifications
assigned with activities that support the research team, such as conducting
experiments, performing lab analysis, data collection, and other activities
required by the project.
- Graduate students: Students enrolled in Masters or PhD or equivalent
program in Saudi colleges and universities, or students on scholarships in
new universities that don’t have graduate programs in special and justifiable
cases, whose area of study is directly related to their assigned work in the
project.
- Undergraduate students: Undergraduate students or students of an
equivalent program seeking to earn a Bachelor’s or equivalent degree, whose
area of study is related to the project.
- Technical personnel: Individuals with the technical and practical
experience and qualifications necessary to perform the technical tasks
required by the project.
- Administrative personnel: Individuals qualified to carry out different
administrative tasks such as copying, secretarial work, accounting and
coordination activities.
- Craftsmen: Artisans and craftsmen.
- Consultant: A qualified expert at providing consulting services or studies in
the area pertaining to the project.
- Review team: A team consisting of 3-5 specialist and experts in the area
pertaining to the operational project, in charge of reviewing the project
proposals.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
9
- Evaluator: Expert in charge of evaluating the performance of each project
phase according to the specified requirement.
- International evaluation: An international body contracted to evaluate
research project proposals and related annual and final technical reports.
- Funding: Financial support provided by the NSTIP to the stakeholder to
implement a specific project among those approved by the supervisory
committee according to the articles of these regulations.
- Research project contract: A formal document signed by the stakeholder’s
authority and the head researcher or the project manager to conduct the
research project.
- Operational project contract: A formal document signed between KACST
and the authority benefitting from one of the operational projects of the
NSTIP programs and projects.
- Project duration: The time period set for the implementation of the project.
- Forms: Forms adopted by the NSTIP General Secretariat.
- Scientific integrity rules: Guidelines approved by the supervisory
committee circulated to reporting units and bodies.
- Scientific meetings: Includes conferences, seminars, workshops, scientific
summits, etc…
- Scientific contributions: Includes scientific papers, fliers and the
chairmanship of scientific meeting sessions.
- Online e-portal: The official NSTIP electronic portal.
- Administrative expenses: Refers to the 7% percentage added to the
approved budget, and allocated to the unit to monitor the stakeholder’s
funded projects.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
10
Chapter II: Administrative and technical responsibilities
Article 3: Administrative and technical responsibilities of the supervisory
committee
The NSTIP supervisory committee is in charge of developing the strategic and five
year national STI plans, as well as monitoring the development of these plans in a
manner that avoids duplication and ensures the concentration of all efforts, as well
as the integration and coordination of all the different areas’ various activities. The
responsibilities of the supervisory committee can be summarized as follows:
The supervisory committee will:
1- Supervise the development of the national STI policy, and follow up its
implementation, developing required STI plans for the policy’s
implementation, monitoring these plans and implementing and evaluating
the results of such plans.
2- Ensure the full coordination and integration of the NSTIP with national
developmental plans and sector specific strategic plans.
3- Coordinate with the Ministry of Finance the budgets of NSTIP projects and
programs.
4- Adopt projects priorities and approved budgets for the national plan’s fiscal
years.
5- Ensure the integration of all research activities between KACST and other
universities, avoiding duplication of efforts as much as possible.
6- Enhance the private sector’s performance and participation in the
implementation of the national plan’s projects.
7- Form the necessary national sub-committees and task teams.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
11
8- Approve the studies, components and development phases of the five-year
plans.
9- Oversee the preparation and development of project implementation
mechanisms.
10- Ensure the alignment of the various activities carried out with the NSTIP
approach and time frame.
11- Adopt projects approved for funding according to the allocated budgets.
12- Set the required marketing mechanisms for R&D outputs of NSTIP
projects.
Article 4: Administrative and technical responsibilities of the preliminary
committee:
The preliminary committee is in charge of all preliminary activities supporting the
supervisory committee, ensuring that all the performance needs of the supervisory
committee are met. The responsibilities of the preliminary committee can be
summarized as follows:
The preliminary committee will:
1. Prepare the supervisory committee meetings, and follow up the
implementation of the committee’s resolutions.
2. Provide information needed by the supervisory committee pertaining to its
areas of expertise.
3. Suggest to the supervisory committee national sub-committees and task
teams.
4. Explain the strategic objectives and policies to relevant stakeholders.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
12
5. Advise stakeholders on technical issues regarding the preparation of various
planning elements.
6. Review programs and projects provided by stakeholders, coordinate among
them and ensure their alignment with the NSTIP vision and strategies,
before submitting them to the supervisory committee for approval.
7. Manage procedures for submission and recommendation of the NSTIP
strategic technologies programs research.
8. Periodic follow up of the various plans’ progress and implementation, in
addition to preparing performance evaluation reports, which include any
necessary corrective actions, to be submitted to the supervisory committee.
9. Analyze NSTIP numerical results, and use them to develop various policies
and plans.
10. Apply the outputs of STI qualitative and quantitative indicators in the
development of the long-term vision and its related strategic plans.
Article 5: General secretariat administrative and technical responsibilities:
The NSTIP general secretariat is an administrative unit reporting to the president
of KACST, established to carry out all the necessary executive and consulting
tasks to assist the NSTIP supervisory and preliminary committees in carrying out
their activities to supervise, plan, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the
NSTIP. The NSTIP general secretariat is in charge of the following. It will:
1. Monitor the progress of the projects being carried out by various public
stakeholders and universities within the NSTIP framework, and advise on
technical and administrative issues when needed.
2. Supervise and coordinate the activities of the various subcommittees and
national task teams assigned by the NSTIP supervisory or preliminary
committee with specific activities.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
13
3. Receive, review and complete the project proposals evaluation procedures,
and report recommendations to the preliminary committee.
4. Receive and review technical and financial reports of the NSTIP supported
projects, and submit recommendations to the preliminary committee.
5. Monitor and evaluate annual performance reports of the various units, and
submit recommendations to the preliminary committee.
6. Advise the NSTIP supervisory and technical committees on technical issues.
7. Formulate the rules and regulations needed to ensure the implementation of
NSTIP projects in a professional high quality manner, submitting
recommendations to the preliminary committee.
8. Promote society’s knowledge and awareness of the NSTIP.
Article 6: Administrative and technical responsibilities of the stakeholder’s
authority:
1. Issue the order to form the stakeholder’s science and technology unit.
2. Appoint the stakeholder’s science and technology’s director.
3. Approve appointments for stakeholder’s funded projects.
4. Disburse and sign checks, adopt proposals and sign financial contracts of a
value greater than 1 million SAR and up to 5 million SAR.
5. The stakeholder’s authority can delegate some of his responsibilities to the
unit’s director.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
14
Article 7: Administrative and technical responsibilities of the unit’s director:
1. Overall supervision of the unit’s responsibilities.
2. Ensure that all research and operational projects meet the submission criteria
of the stakeholder.
3. Financial supervision over the unit in accordance with the authority allowed
by the regulations.
4. Approve delegation, training and participation with scientific meetings that
relate to the stakeholder’s funded projects.
5. Submit unit’s annual performance reports to the general secretariat.
Article 8: Administrative, financial and technical responsibilities of the unit:
1. The science and technology unit is a specialized unit established by the
stakeholder, and is directly in charge of carrying out the administrative,
technical and financial activities of the projects. The unit is also responsible
for the planning, management, and coordination of the programs and
projects pertaining to the stakeholder’s science and technology activities,
ensuring that such activities are aligned with the NSTIP priorities and
direction. The unit reports directly to the general secretariat, and is equipped
with all the necessary means and requirements for it to carry the following
administrative, financial and technical responsibilities:
- Form scientific committees to review projects before submitting them
to the general secretariat.
- Administrative and technical supervision of the science and
technology’s five year plans projects and programs of the relevant
stakeholder to which it reports.
- Act as the contact point with the general secretariat, providing the
latter with all the required and needed reports, data and information
regarding the projects.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
15
- Develop science and technology plans, strategies, programs and
projects for the stakeholder in accordance with the NSTIP priorities and
approach.
- Monitor the implementation of programs and projects, ensuring that
their goals are met.
- Ensure that researchers observe the copyrights and patents resulting
from NSTIP funded projects.
- Monitor science and technology developments, identifying potential
opportunities in international agreements, investing and developing
such opportunities into specific programs and projects with clear goals.
- Full utilization of all the stakeholder’s resources and equipment.
- Full use of any scientific and technical aid, research and training
grants as well as consulting offered by world organizations, bodies and
associations to develop the stakeholder’s human resources.
- Provide researchers with science and technology services.
- Review and check periodic financial reports and submitted
disbursement vouchers, checking all related observations.
- Verify that disbursement vouchers are available when disbursing due
payments.
- Stay on approved budget tracks for various projects.
- Match the projects account balance with funds provided by SAMA
(Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency).
- Oversee that the budget is implemented according to the project
terms.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
16
- Prepare financial forms and records related to the follow up of the
projects work.
- Record all financial transactions within the general secretariat’s
approved financial program.
- Train project accountants, lead them and instruct them on their work.
- Prepare the unit’s periodic financial reports (monthly spreadsheet,
closing account, project detailed files) and submit them to the
secretariat.
- Ensure compliance with the scientific integrity guidelines.
2. Research projects financial and procedural responsibilities:
- Receive project proposals submitted by researchers through the
NSTIP e-portal.
- Check that research proposals meet all the criteria set by the rules
and regulations issued by the general secretariat.
- Review and evaluate projects proposed by the scientific committee
reporting to the unit, verifying that they meet all the general
secretariat’s submission requirements.
- Forward research proposals meeting all submission requirements to
the general secretariat to be reviewed.
- Submit annual technical and financial reports of the funded projects
meeting all submission requirements to the general secretariat.
- Technical and financial monitoring of projects funded by the
stakeholders, including communicating with researchers to send
detailed plans of the projects approved by the supervisory
committee, study and review such plans, checking that all forms and
needed paperwork is complete.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
17
- Coordinate with the general secretariat to follow up on the submitted
funding request with the Ministry of Finance, so it can be deposited
into the relevant SAMA account.
- Prepare and sign research project implementation contract with the
head researcher for projects with budgets worth less than 1,000,000
SAR, in accordance with the approved contract forms approved by
the general secretariat, sending a copy of the contract to the
secretariat.
3. Procedural and financial responsibilities related to operational projects:
- Draft operational projects proposals in accordance with the
stakeholder’s approved programs in the STI five year plans.
- Report to the general secretariat the details of proposed projects
according to priorities, using to the approved forms.
- Make necessary changes to the operational project proposal based on
the recommendations of the general secretariat’s review team.
- Submit to the general secretariat a comprehensive detailed study of
the technical specifications of the project, and its requirements, in
addition to a PMP implementation plan, once the supervisory
committee approves the project proposal.
- Follow up with the general secretariat on the funding request
submitted to the ministry of finance so that it is deposited in the
relevant SAMA account
- Organize the implementation priorities of the stakeholder’s NSTIP
approved programs projects throughout the year.
- Develop financial and technical annual reports on the funded
projects that meet all the submission criteria, to the general
secretariat.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
18
- Give a presentation of the progress of the various projects in front of
the preliminary committee or its representative in the case it’s so
requested.
4. Financial competency of the unit’s director:
- Develop and sign project contract with the head researcher to carry
out projects with budgets equal to less than 1 million SAR using the
NSTIP contract forms approved by the general secretariat.
- Approve payments, sign checks, approve proposals and sign
financial contracts of a value less than 1 million SAR.
- Approve the payment for the unit’s administrative and technical
requirements from the administrative expenses account (7%) added
to the budget approved for the project within the limits of his
disbursement authority.
- Approve the disbursement of an IMPREST fund to the program
director no greater than 100,000 SAR, to be replenished whenever it
is about to be depleted, once all the payment vouchers are submitted
to be reviewed and verified by the unit.
- Approve the disbursement of an advance to the head researcher or
project manager not to exceed 30,000 SAR, to be replenished
whenever it is about to be depleted once all the payment vouchers
are submitted to be reviewed and verified by the unit.
- When necessary, a project advance is given to the head researcher or
project manager that shall not exceed 50,000 SAR, to be repaid as
soon as the purpose for the advance is completed. No additional loan
is allowed until the previous one is paid in full.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
19
5. Disbursement mechanisms at the science and technology unit:
- The unit and its entire staff shall be treated as a research team,
meaning it shall follow the effective disbursement procedures for
projects.
- The unit director shall be treated as a head researcher, and the
programs directors as research associates. Any expertise needed can
be sought in additional areas such scientific meetings from within
the Kingdom or outside and these experts shall be treated as
consultants.
- It is prohibited to combine two remunerations to work in the unit.
- The purchases and needs of the unit can be covered by the
administrative expenses account (7%) from the percentage added to
the approved budget for the projects, taking into consideration the
financial authority of the unit director.
- The unit shall organize scientific and training meetings to support
the NSTIP programs, covering such expenses with the
administrative expenses account.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
20
Chapter III: Budget and spending
Article 9: Project spending rules:
1. A ratio of 7% will be added to the budget approved for each project funded
in the unit’s account to follow up on the stakeholder’s project.
2. The stakeholder’s authority is responsible for all spending related to
stakeholder’s approved project, based on the following rules:
- Funds allocated for the second year shall be disbursed once the annual
financial and technical reports are submitted and approved.
- The annual financial and technical reports must be approved before
the research team, participants and project manager are remunerated.
- No remuneration shall be granted to the research team for project
extensions periods.
- Two remunerations may not be combined by any team member
participating in any given project.
- The overall allocated remunerations to any research team member
(head researcher, research associate and project manager) for his
participation in research projects, shall not exceed the value of three
projects remunerations per month.
- The disbursement of the consultant’s compensation shall be approved
after a comprehensive report is submitted by the head researcher on
the work achieved through the consulting period, and approved by the
unit.
- The project budget does not cover cars. When necessary cars can be
leased for the period needed pending the unit’s approval.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
21
Article 10: Payment authority:
1. The authority to approve payments, sign checks, accept offers, sign contracts
and award suppliers is as follows:
Official position Authority limits Authorized to sign
Head researcher/ project
manager
Up to 30,000 SAR Head researcher/
project manager
Unit director More than 30,000
SAR up to 1000,000
SAR
Unit director and unit
finance officer
Stakeholder president or his
representative
> 1000,000 SAR
<5,000,000 SAR
Stakeholder authority
or unit director
Competition 5,000,000 SAR
Stakeholder’s
authority, unit director,
unit’s finance officer.
Article 11: Supplies procurement rules:
1. Supplies that do not exceed 30,000 SAR in value:
- Supplies and equipment are directly purchased by the head researcher
either from inside the Kingdom or overseas.
- The value of the overall purchases should not exceed 30,000 SAR,
and should be limited to items purchased in small quantities and to
urgent need where time is of essence.
2. Supplies that exceed 30,000 SAR in value but are worth less than 1 million
SAR.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
22
- A request to purchase the supplies and equipment is submitted along
with three offers to the unit for it to carry out the following
procedures:
a. A procurement committee is assigned, consisting of the
head researcher (project manager in the case of operational
projects) in addition to members from the financial committee
to review and choose the best offer.
b. The head researcher (project manager in the case of
operational projects) using the forms approved by the
stakeholder, specifies the name of the company with the best
offer, along with the number of the offer, the period of supply,
then signs it and sends it to the unit.
c. A letter of award for the supplies and equipment is
drafted by the unit director.
d. Once he is awarded the contract, the supplier provides
the various supplies and equipment over the specified period of
time. The supplying company must send the original bill to the
head researcher (project manager in the case of operational
projects) to be in turn submitted to the unit.
e. Once all the supplying, receipt & delivery procedures and
official company paperwork are completed in accordance with
the stakeholder’s regulations, payment is made through the unit.
3. Supplies exceeding 1 million SAR and less than 5 million SAR in value:
- For supplies and equipment that are worth more than 1 million SAR
and less than 5 million SAR, the procedures set by this article shall be
followed, with the exception that the selection of offers, the awarding
of the supplier and the approval of due payments must be approved by
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
23
the stakeholder’s authority, in addition to drafting a contract binding
both the supplier’s company and the stakeholder’s authority.
- The contract installments or payments due to third outside partied are
made through the unit, once all the official procedures of the
committee, taking into consideration the authority of the stakeholder’s
authority.
4. Supplies exceeding 5 million SAR in value:
- If a project requires the provision of equipment or supplies or
materials worth a value exceeding 5 million SAR, procurement must
be done through public competitive bidding according to the
stakeholder’s rule.
Article 12: Rules of tendering for procurement contracts
1. The head researcher of research projects or the project manager of
operational projects must provide at least three offers to purchase the
project’s needed supplies, in case they are worth more than 30,000 SAR.
2. It is sufficient for the head researcher of research projects or the project
manager of operational projects to propose a single t offer when there’s an
exclusive supplier of the needed supplies. In this case, the representative
company’s tender is submitted along with documents proving the exclusive
nature of the company agency and a letter explaining the situation.
3. The unit will do the necessary to award the contract for the supplies after
reviewing all the offers, taking into consideration the items of article 11 of
these rules.
4. Supplies may not be purchased until the unit awards the contract.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
24
Article 13: Request to change the equipment offered in the project:
1. If the project requires any equipment other than those included in the
proposed research project, the head researcher of research projects or the
project manager of the operational projects shall take the following steps:
- Submission of a request to change, justifying the need for the change
requested, and providing detailed information regarding the
alternative equipment.
- The unit is in charge of reviewing the request and processing it.
- In case the request to change the equipment is approved, the
procedures described in article 11 shall be followed, provided that the
request to change does not affect the overall equipment budget item of
the project.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
25
Chapter IV: Additional Rules
Article 14: The researcher’s obligations:
1. The researcher pledges to abide by:
- The principles of scientific integrity issued by the general secretariat
http://www.kacst.edu.sa/en/about/stnp/Pages/forms.aspx.
- The comprehensive NSTIP IP policy published by the supervisory
committee: http://www.kacst.edu.sa/en/about/stnp/Pages/forms.aspx
- Bioethics regulations when handling living creatures, parts thereof or
their genetic material
http://www.kacst.edu.sa/ar/depts/bioethics/1/Regul/Bioethic.Rgl.fin.b
ks.pdf
2. The researcher is responsible for all the consequences of any violation of the
above.
Article 15: Scientific Publishing:
1. If the project is not classified as confidential, and there’s a desire to publish
some or all of the research results, the stakeholder’s IP rights as well as
those of the participants in the research project must be respected first, and
any patents resulting from the project need to be filed before proceeding to
any scientific publishing.
2. Any publication resulting from any project or related to any research project
results must include credits to the contributions of individuals and
stakeholders involved with the project, including the role of the NSTIP.
3. The support provided by the NSTIP for the project must be recognized when
the results of the research project are published in scientific papers or
scientific meetings or any other publications with the following form: “This
project was supported by the NSTIP strategic technologies program number
(XXX) in the Kingdom”.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
26
4. The results of a project shall not be published nor shared with others unless
authorized at the beginning of the project, or prior consent is obtained.
5. The stakeholder has the right to conceal the results of a project if this is in
the public interest, in which case the reports are classified as confidential.
6. When publishing research project results, scientific periodicals listed in the
international information bases such as ISI, SCOPUS, in addition to other
world databases, must be selected.
- In case a project requires experimenting on living creatures or on the
environment, the required authorizations must be obtained from the
relevant authorities in advance and before conducting any
experiments. The general secretariat is not responsible for any such
experiments.
Article 16: Liability for damages:
1. The general secretariat shall not be held financially or legally liable for any
accident, or bodily or health injuries, or human loss, or any claims resulting
from any activity or experiment conducted by the research project funded by
the general secretariat, whether these damages or claims, or some of these
damages or claims, pertain to the party benefitting from the grant or any
other request. The head researcher must obtain the necessary licenses and
permissions from the relevant authorities to conduct any experiment with
possible negative effects of humans, animals or the environment.
Article 17: Collecting information and the information confidentiality:
1. Collecting information and confidentiality:
- If the research involved surveying to collect information, the
researchers take full responsibility for the collection of information
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
27
related to a project, without any responsibility on behalf of the general
secretariat. Furthermore, the researchers shall not insinuate to any
participants with the survey that they are collecting the information
for the general secretariat. When the project does need information
collection, it must be stated as so in the project’s introduction. In cases
of necessity, the head researcher shall seek the authorization of the
general secretariat to refer to it in the survey. NSTIP support for the
project does not imply its approval of the survey plan or the survey
content or data collection methods.
2. Confidential information:
- Confidential information include all data, details, work plans, task
team composition, technical and financial and administrative
documents, correspondence, internal publications, consultations,
meetings minutes, forms, designs, proposals, achievements, research
project outputs and inputs, and inventions that may result from the
project, in addition to the work environment, executive plans, control
mechanisms, and quality management related to the committee or
secretariat or research project.
- All the information related to the submitted projects is considered
confidential according to the effective laws in the Kingdom, and the
staff working at the unit shall not disclose any of this confidential
information in any way, unless prior written consent is obtained from
the general secretariat.
3. Term of confidentiality:
- The confidentiality of approved research proposals’ data is binding for
five years from the date of submission of the application.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
National Science, Technology and Innovation Plan
28
- The confidentiality of the data of approved research proposals is
binding from the date the application is submitted and for the five
years subsequent to the date of final completion of the project.
Article 18: Ownership of the equipment, devices and installations:
1. All the equipment, devices and installations insured or made for the project
will be obtained using funding provided for the project in the head
researcher’s trust, to be used throughout the implementation of the project.
The head researcher commits to ensuring the maintenance, safety and
delivery of all equipment, devices and installations to the stakeholder upon
completion, as it will be its owner.
Article 19: In the absence of a specific article:
1. In matters where there is no specific related article in these regulations,
KACST effective rules, or any stakeholder effective rules, or decisions
issued by the supervisory committee shall be followed.
Article 20: The right to interpret or amend article items:
1. The supervisory committee has the sole right to interpret or amend any items
in these articles. Subsequent decisions or regulations issued by the
supervisory committee related to projects’ progress shall be considered an
integral part of these articles.
Article 21: Applying the regulations:
1. These regulations apply to all projects with NSTIP support, effective from
the date these regulations are adopted, and shall supersede any previous
regulations or instructions, overriding any conflicting rules or exemptions.
2. These regulations shall be updated every five years from the date they are
issued or as needed.